# rgb
We&#39;re going to explore a website that you run right on your desktop today. Use a text document to answer the questions.

1.  Open the index.html file inside of the rgb folder. 

2.  Play the game for a few minutes, get to know it, change the difficulty. 

    a.  How would you expand the game? What options or settings could you add?
    Adding an extra difficulty that adds more colors to choose from, or reversing the game so that it gives you a color and you have to choose the
    rgb code that aligns with it. 

3.  Using this documentation https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction to guide you: 

    a.  What is the DOM?
    DOM is a programming interface for HTML and XML documents. It represents the page so that programs can change the document structure, style, and content.

    b.  When is the DOM different than HTML?
    The DOM can be different depending on which browser you're using since different browsers can have different implementations of the DOM.

    c.  What is the state of the DOM when you first load the page?
    It's active.

    d.  What is the state of the DOM if you turn off JavaScript and refresh the page?
    It's inactive. 

4.  Now let's explore the code. Use the inspector to investigate the HTML, CSS and Javascript. 

    a.  Which parts of UI are being generated by the HTML file? The CSS? The JavaScript?
    The text is being generated by HTML. The default light blue header color is being generated in CSS. The color of the squares you choose from are
    generated from JS. 

    b.  What happens inside the CSS file when you click on various elements in the page?
    I dont see any changes taking place in the CSS when I click on the square buttons on the page. 

        i.  What elements does the CSS file change?
        The CSS change is making the h1 background "Steel Blue" and the square buttons have a color value in the CSS as "Purple" 

    c.  What happens inside the HTML file when you click on various elements in the page?
    Whenever I refresh the page or click to start a new round, each square button is assigned at new RGB color in the HTML. 

    d.  Use breakpoints in the JavaScript to walk through what happens when you click on various elements on the page. 

        i.  What happens when you click on a color block?
        It checks to see if it matches the RGB value on the top. If it doesn't match, the color of the button is set to the same as the background so it looks like it disappears.

        ii.  What happens when you click on the winning color block?
        If the block you click matches the RGB value on the top, then all buttons are turned that color along with the h1 background. 

        iii.  What happens when you click "Play again"?
        When you click play again, it generates a new set of random colors as well as return the h1 background color to the default steel blue. 

        iv.  What HTML and CSS elements can JavaScript change? 

        v.  How does score keeping work? 
        You lose 1 point for every wrong guess and gain 5 for every correct guess. The value is stored locally to your device.

        vi.  Why does it persist through closing the page?
        It stores the "score" value locally and accesses it with JS. 

        vii.  Using this documentation: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage change the JavaScript file to use session storage instead of local storage. 

        viii.  What's different about the way the score is kept now?
        The score will be cleared whenever your page session ends. 

        ix.  When you win what happens when the title changes?
        The title becomes the closest named RGB color assigned to your given value, hence the "-ish." If the color value was the exact same as a named RGB color, then the "-ish" is dropped.

        x.  What does Asynchronous mean in the context of JavaScript?
        Asynchronous means that things can load out of order or at the same time. 

        xi.  What is the fetch function inside of updateColorName?
        An API that gets info from another location. 
        
        xii.  What does it do?
        It retrieves a named RGB color. 

        xiii.  What's an alternative to using fetch?
        AJAX 

        xiv.  Why use one over the other?
        Fetch doesn't reject on HTTP error status. 

5.  Add comments to the JavaScript code explaining what you think each function does. 

6.  As you went through this process which of the 3E's did you draw from most? How?

    a.  Curiosity, Deal with Uncertainty, Observation Skills
    I think I mostly used observational skills. I tried to decipher the English in the JS code to infer what it was doing.

7.  Push your changes to Git.

Other Resources: 

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage

- https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/javascript